Update "Advanced or cluster computing" with big data tools and cloud-native services (#140)
sa-tre/satre-specification: docs/source/pillars/computing_technology.md

    For example, when using physical compute resources all sensitive data must be securely wiped before another user is given access to that same node.
    In a cloud hosted TRE virtual machines should be destroyed and recreated.
  - Mandatory

> * - A TRE could integrate with large-scale data analytics tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* - A TRE could integrate with large-scale data analytics tools.
```

Reviewer: Not sure if "data analytics" is a compound adjective here. "data-analytics tools", maybe not because data and analytics are nouns?

>   - For example, software such as Spark and Hadoop are used for distributed computing across clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For example Spark and Hadoop can be used for distributed computing across a cluster.
```

    Where data included in TREs are impractically large for single-machine computing, this will be an advantage.
  - Optional

> * - A TRE could integrate with cloud-native managed services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* - A TRE could integrate with cloud-native managed services.
```

>   - For example, TREs that make use of Spark for large-scale data analytics may also want to use Databricks for automated cluster management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Public clouds provide 100s of managed services such as notebooks, big data pipelines, databases, API management, serverless computing etc. Use of these services can offload the work of maintaining infrastructure to the cloud provider in return for a fee.
```

>   - For example, TREs that make use of Spark for large-scale data analytics may also want to use Databricks for automated cluster management.

Reviewer: Might be useful to have a more broad set of examples _e.g._ "cloud-native services can provide useful tools for researchers such as notebooks, data management, distributed computing, container management" (I'm making this list up, not sure if all of those exist). That way we don't imply it is only useful when a TRE has data analytics tools.

Author: I've added an example from #64 (17.3.a) of cloud machine-learning platforms - are there other examples worth mentioning?

Author: Just seen Simon's edit

    For example, when using physical compute resources all sensitive data must be securely wiped before another user is given access to that same node.
    In a cloud hosted TRE virtual machines should be destroyed and recreated.
  - Mandatory
* - A TRE could integrate with large-scale data analytics tools.
  - For example Spark and Hadoop can be used for distributed computing across a cluster.
    Where data included in TREs are impractically large for single-machine computing, this will be an advantage.
  - Optional

> * - A TRE could integrate with cloud-native managed services.

Reviewer 3: What does this really mean as part of the specification? Some TREs *can* do this and some can't. Some might want to and some might not. Is there any point in saying "do this if you want to"? There might be a point here about "only use cloud services if you're confident that you understand the security risks" but otherwise I'm not sure this is a useful part of the specification.

Reviewer 3: I think our optional components should really be saying "we think you should X but we understand that you might not want to". I'm not sure that's true as written, but there *is* something around "consider doing X but if-and-only-if you understand the risks".

>   - Public clouds provide 100s of managed services such as notebooks, big data pipelines, databases, API management, serverless computing etc. Use of these services can offload the work of maintaining infrastructure to the cloud provider in return for a fee.
>   Examples include Databricks for automated cluster management and cloud machine-learning platforms such as SageMaker (AWS) or Azure Machine Learning.
>   - Optional

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Public clouds provide many different managed services which might include Jupyter notebooks, big data pipelines, databases, API management or serverless computing.
    Examples include Databricks for automated cluster management and cloud machine-learning platforms such as SageMaker (AWS) or Azure Machine Learning.
    Although the cloud provider is responsible for providing these services, the TRE operator must ensure that using them does not compromise the security of the TRE.
  - Optional
```

    For example, when using physical compute resources all sensitive data must be securely wiped before another user is given access to that same node.
    In a cloud hosted TRE virtual machines should be destroyed and recreated.
  - Mandatory
* - TREs working with big datasets could integrate with large-scale data analytics tools.
  - For example, Spark and Hadoop can be used for distributed computing across a cluster.

>     Where data included in TREs are impractically large for single-machine computing, this will be an advantage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Where data included in TREs are impractically large for single-machine computing, this may be an advantage.
```

  - Optional
* - TREs integrating with cloud-native managed services should consider the associated risks.
  - Cloud providers supply many different managed services.

>     Although the cloud provider is responsible for providing these services, the TRE operator must ensure that using them does not compromise the security of the TRE.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Although the cloud provider is responsible for managing the configuration of these services, the TRE operator must ensure that using them does not compromise the security of the TRE.
```

    For example, when using physical compute resources all sensitive data must be securely wiped before another user is given access to that same node.
    In a cloud hosted TRE virtual machines should be destroyed and recreated.
  - Mandatory
* - TREs working with big datasets could integrate with large-scale data analytics tools.

>   - For example Spark and Hadoop can be used for distributed computing across a cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For example, Spark and Hadoop can be used for distributed computing across a cluster.
```

    Where data included in TREs are impractically large for single-machine computing, this will be an advantage.
  - Optional
* - TREs integrating with cloud-native managed services should consider the associated risks.

>   - Public clouds provide many different managed services which might include Jupyter notebooks, big data pipelines, databases, API management or serverless computing.
>     Examples include Databricks for automated cluster management and cloud machine-learning platforms such as SageMaker (AWS) or Azure Machine Learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Cloud providers supply many different managed services.
```

Private cloud providers also.

I think listing types of services and (especially) what they do is redundant here. I would want to remove that to keep the meaning of this section clear.

    Although the cloud provider is responsible for providing these services, the TRE operator must ensure that using them does not compromise the security of the TRE.

>   - Optional

Reviewer: I might have missed the conversation around this.

It is definitely important, although I feel a bit like it goes without saying. Is there anything about these services _in particular_ that means we need to consider the risks? For example, would it be any different than using your cloud providers LDAP/AD service?

Reviewer 2: Example: you use a managed service such as SageMaker which provides access via a unique URL for that instance. Since it's a TRE you must ensure the networking is customised to only allow access to that URL from a network inside the TRE.

Reviewer 2: Expanding further, managed services hide a lot of the complexity so it would be quite easy to make a service available inside the TRE without realising what it actually allows. For something like LDAP/AD it's not as big a problem because the purpose of that service is bounded, but for anything supporting interactive user access there's a danger of it leading to an opening.

Reviewer: Thanks @manics. I think I can see the distinction. A lot of the cloud-native services see 'access from anywhere' as a feature, where as other software requires you to be proactive to route connections.

I still think it is a bit obvious, but I don't object enough to suggest changing or removing the statement.
